README.adoc, before:

= Netkit Docs

== Overview

This repo hosts the source code for https://netkit-jh.github.io which covers documentation on using and developing netkit-jh.

== Contributing

To contribute to the website please fork this repository and submit your changes as a pull request.

=== Blog Posts

To add a blog post create a markdown file in the `blog` directory with the naming convention *YYYY-MM-DD-BLOG-NAME.md*.

For information on formatting of blog posts, see the documentation link:https://v2.docusaurus.io/docs/blog[here].

=== Documentation

To add a page to the docs, create a markdown file in the `docs` directory (and in the relevant subdirectory if necessary). 
For guidance on markdown formatting see the documentation link:https://v2.docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features[here].

== ToDo

* [ ] Make logo and favicon
* [ ] Create / find graphics for homepage
* [*] Installation Guide
* [ ] About netkit-jh page
* [ ] Testing guide (abr lab from scratch and walkthrough)
* [ ] Upcoming Features Page
* [ ] Building with docker guide
* [ ] Building with bullseye VM guide
* [ ] Page for each current bug
* [ ] add FAQ for common bugs / error messages

Commit message:

Add info on github pages

README.adoc, after:

= Netkit Docs

== Overview

This repo hosts the source code for https://netkit-jh.github.io which covers documentation on using and developing netkit-jh.

== Contributing

To contribute to the website please fork this repository and submit your changes as a pull request.

=== Dev Environment

To run a development version of the site, first install necessary packages with:

....
> yarn install
....

Then run with:
....
> yarn run start
....

=== Blog Posts

To add a blog post create a markdown file in the `blog` directory with the naming convention *YYYY-MM-DD-BLOG-NAME.md*.

For information on formatting of blog posts, see the documentation link:https://v2.docusaurus.io/docs/blog[here].

=== Documentation

To add a page to the docs, create a markdown file in the `docs` directory (and in the relevant subdirectory if necessary). 
For guidance on markdown formatting see the documentation link:https://v2.docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features[here].

=== Publishing

If you have contributor access to the repo you can publish changes to the production site. To do this run

....
GIT_USER=<GIT_USER> \
  CURRENT_BRANCH=master \
  USE_SSH=true \
  yarn run publish-gh-pages
....

== ToDo

* [ ] Make logo and favicon
* [ ] Create / find graphics for homepage
* [*] Installation Guide
* [ ] About netkit-jh page
* [ ] Testing guide (abr lab from scratch and walkthrough)
* [ ] Upcoming Features Page
* [ ] Building with docker guide
* [ ] Building with bullseye VM guide
* [ ] Page for each current bug
* [ ] add FAQ for common bugs / error messages
